---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 2
---

This week we went over several different c++ files with different functionalities. We went over some STL iterators and which one of these is best for which situations. Sadly, this week was filled with alot of rainy weather, so I attened Monday and Friday and skipped Wednesday using 1 out of 5 of my unexcused absences. A good tip for this week is to pay attention to pointers how they are called, addressed, and referenced. My last time dealing with pointers on an entensive level was when I was taking CS439 which was Operating Systems. 

This Tuesday was when project 1 was due which was the Collatz project. Here are a few pointers on Collatz: make sure you pay attention to how the tools work!!! Especially GTest and Travis CI. Valgrind is automatically queued and run and set to the .out file; you wont have to configure Valgrind that much, but Valgrind is a very valuable tool for memory checking. GTest and Travis CI are two different monsters. GTest is tricky to install on your local machine, but is already installed on the school Linux machines so as long as you can work on campus you will be fine Travis CI is very helpful for this project, bcause I cannot check how my program is doing from home, as long as I commit to my repo, Travis CI will see it and run the makefile commands. So from home, you can see how you program runs without being on campus. Make sure to follow every step of the project that Downing describes otherwise you will break the TA's script and be forced to fixed it. 

To fully prepare for the next project after project 1 is due, make sure to attend class that following week. He goes in-depth on how to use a priority queue data structure and describes the declaration of it. 

This week, I decided to skip the reading on a few of the paper assigned, and let me tell you that is not a good idea. Cause you WILL be quizzed on it next lecture. 

Pleas please please atten the study session that are given. For project 1 it was very helpful to get input and insight on my project 1 to help workout the kinks in my code dealing with Sphere Online Judge. 

As usual, Professor Downing will over class material in the form of c++ files. It is imperative that you pay attention to these description and explanations, they will be detrimental for your work on project 2. 

Tip of the week: If you wish to score good on the quizzes, do not neglect the papers! Even if you feel like you do not need to read them and they are "common sense." The quiz questions are not direct and may need your actual effort to answer them correctly.
