---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 1 
---

The first full week of Generic Programming & The STL was alot better than I had imagined. When I had first signed up for the class, I had googled reviews about Professor Downing and two classes game up: Generic Programming and Software Engineering. Half of the results were blogs relating to the class and some were made on word press and some were made on tumblr, so it seems that the blog feature for bonus points had been long running since before this summer's class; it does seem though that he had made the switch over to Github Pages using Jekyll, which in my opinion was a bit confusing to set up but with some help from Jekyll documentation and youtube videos I finally got it set up and working. 

I read the first and last entries of those blogs I found and they all said that a Downing class was the hardest class they've taken, but the class itself comes with many benefits and toward the end it was very much worth taking the class. It prepares you for your life after your college career: using professional tools that they do in the real world and also trying to get us computer science students to work well with each other (to be socialable like he said in class). One thing I was scared of though was that alot of the students said that if you were to take either of his classes you would need at have at least taken a previous class on Python or C++, both which I have not done, so I was a bit nervous about project 1 and the material. But it turns out it was not that bad. One thing I really like about Downing's lecture style is that he goes through code line by line (often calling on students to answer what a specific line does, then helping the student if they do not know). Not many professors do this surprisingly. They will go through code but will not stop to ask a student what it does. He has a very unique voice and projects it very well, which actually helps engage me, personally, more into whatever file we are looking at. He does tend to crack jokes several times during a lecture which I find to make students a little more comfortable. The quizzes themselves are a lot different than quizzes you probably have taken in the past; Downing does his quizzes with an application called TopHat which can be accessed online or with your phone (participation as well). I find it easier and less messy than paper quizzes, BUT the quizzes are automatically graded which makes it tough to answer certain questions that require a typed answer: for example an answer for Day 1 quizz was Google Test, which I had input as Google Test, but the accepted answer was GTest. It gets very specific and it kind of bothers me and makes me not want to look forward to quizzes. 

Now onto the project of this class. The documentation and project details are extraordinarily precise and detailed. The way he breaks down steps for the students, includes all commands needed for a specific "make", all useful links and help really shows that he is serious about each project. Most projects for other classes are one big text file and are half vague, but not Downings. Each step is well detailed and put in a order that makes sense. He includes many tools such as valgrind, GTest, Doxygen and Travis CI to help students with building better code. Though alll the stuff is tedious to read and learn about to get it going properly, it is definitely worth it. We havent had our first test yet but as expected he had said in class that they are going to be largely compromised of coding questions which I am not too excited about. I bought a C++ book that Downing recommended and I am slowly trying to learn my C++. Previous student stated you needed a good understanding of C++ to take this class but I dont think that this is the case: I had no C++ knowledge before this class but the way he breaks information down in lecture really helps you get to now C++ better (example: we went on a slight but long and detailed tangent about the "<<" operator). Personally, if you have taken any C based class or Java (which you should have), you should be okay.

Tip of the Week:
Please please please learn git source control. I learned it in past classes working with students who taught me what they knew, and it made this class easier in addition to making managing code alot easier which will translate well into your career. Learn your git commands, how to make branches and manipulate these branches, and using git tools (log, SHA, etc). Get in the habit of committing often and committing useful information and changes.
