---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 7 
---


Overall, this class was very difficult, but WORTH IT. For any future student reading this, if you are looking for an easy class to blow off, this is not it. This class requires effort and correctness. The projects are very thorough and test your knowledge on the material taught in class. I would not recommend taking this class with another code heavy class like CS439/429. I took this during the summer and each project (after the first 2) took around 20-30 hours to complete, and another 5-10 hours to debug and complete the rest of the project requirements. He incorporates alot fo good and useful tools that are used in the real world such as: Google Test, valgrind (memory checker), gcov (coverage check), and Travis CI (continuous integration). 

Downing has a very unique and engaging lecture style, he keeps you focused and in the material. He calls on students periodically throughout each lecture and asks you questions about the code he has on the overhead. He explains it very well if you don't know the answer. Attendance is mandatory. For this summer semester he used Top Hat which was for quizzes and attendance. In my opinion, Top Hat is a cool concept, but the way the quizzes are, its tough to get them correct. Because with a paper quiz, if you miss number one but then number 2 helps you figure out the answer you can change your number 1's answer. But with tophat you see each quiz question one by one ont he screen. AND tophat costs money. Though not very much, that is still a lunch for a few days. 

As for the the coding, Downing does his best in office hours to not give away too much, but jsut enough for you to understand the concept and do some independent research to get the correct functionality and code written. In addition, Downing is very FAIR. I can't reiterate that enough, he is a very fair professor and wants to see his students put in effort and succeed. I was lucky enough to have very good TAs (shout out to HongBing and Siddesh). Knowing C++, in my opinion, is not required to succeed in the class initially because Downing does a very good job to introduce you to C++ with projects 1 and 2. But after that 3-5 require extensive knowledge of what you learned in class and a good concept of pointers and references. I came into the class with barely any C++ knowledge, and I believe I am doing alright for myself in regards to C++.

This class really helps you get ready for the professional word! I would recommend taking this class if you want to be challenged and have some good points on your resume (experience with CI, GTest, tec). 

And to Downing if youre reading this, thank you got an amazing summer semester! 


