---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 3
---

So this week is the week leading up to the first test which makes me very nervous. I have been studying Saturday and some today and I will continue to study after I make this blog post. The test is entirely made of up coding C++ as Downing has told us. My study strategy is to study with a group of people so you can all throw the knowledge you know to each other and bounce off ideas and work on problems together. Reading the book sections also is a good idea which I havent gotten around to, but I will later tonight. Working problems and reviewing the code on GitHUb (copy.c++ and etc) is very helpful. I have a feeling he will be putting a question on writing a iterator and its functions. I have not yet worked through the Prime problem he has given us but I will. Running code and checking output is a great way of understanding how C++ functions work; especially pointers and referencing!

This class is not forgiving if you miss out on details (as I've learned from the quizzes). Working on these small concepts and details and really understanding why it is that way will really take you far as a programmer. 

We had a speaker this week and I really recommend future students to attend it. He shares his experience in the field and some pointers on how to further pus your career to getting the job or the salary you want. I took a class by Devdatta Kulkarni last semester and he was also from Rackspace so I had some experience working with Rackspace's cloud. I think working at Rackspace would be very exciting, the culture seems very uptempo and 'hip.'  

