---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 5
---

So this week has been very hectic again. With my first session class just finishing up this past friday as well at an incredibly hard project 3 Integer for this class <generic>. I barely had anytime to relax or sleep. So this weekend I have been catching up on sleep, and just started working on this project 4 for generic today. We got TestDeque.c++ completed; basically jsut some good edge cases for me to test against when me and my partner are writing Deque.h. Though the project doesnt seem HARD, it seems like it does require alot of understanding of how the container works underneath. Which will be a task, but luckily I have been slowly getting it by reading it in the textbook and with the online reference that another student posted on piazza. 

On Wednesday, I had to finish up project 3, and then the next day catch up on 16 lectures for CS361 as well as write programming assignment 5 for that class. Fortunately for me, I am a java wizard. Unfortunately for me, I am no wizard in c++. Then after completing that programming assignment 5, immediately start studying for the final the next day. Now The second session is starting which I will be taking CS345 with Cook. Yep, my summer is filled with school and non-relaxation. Its okay, because IF i make through this last 5 weeks, I no longer have to come back to Austin, hooray! Unless i find work here. In that case, hooray as well! 

On a side note, Generic is tough. The concepts are tough to see at first if you havent had any experience with c++ (like me), it becomes hard to keep up with Downing because you're stuck trying to understand the syntax and then zone out what he is saying cause youre 1 step behind. 

Tip of the Week: time management. Juggling 2 summer classes is near death. Managing your time with one classes programming assignments and then another classes is a major plus to keep your headon your shoulders. Cheers!