---
layout: post
title: CS378 Summer 2015 Week 4
---

So, we had gotten exam #1 back this week on canvas. I did a little worse than i expected. While doing project 3, I realized somethings about interators and containers that I didnt know before. I think that having the exam after this project wouldve been very helpful to understandign the test material since the test was soley based on containers and its iterators. But in the end, the test also helped prepare us for project 3 in a way.

Project 3 is very tedious.. having to understand the algorithms to write the functions of add, subtract, multiply and divide is tricky. Another strong point about this project is that it really makes you understand how enclosed classes work and its interior functions and variables; how the Integer class will call its function. One neat thing I learned while reading through the code before working on it was that some of the functions called other functions, thus reducing the work required. Such as implementing > function, it helped reduce the work needed to do < and associated operators. 

This week was very brutal for me, I had a cs361 project and overlapping Cs378 test that I had to do concurrently. And this coming week will be jsut as heavy with work with this project 3 and another cs361 project.

Tip of the Week:
Please choose your partners carefully and not too late. I ended up picking a partner on Thursday and to be quite honest (and no offense to him), he is kind of useless. By being social and active in class you get to meet other people and see how they are and their work ethic and knowledge with academics, which can help you choose a good partner that doesnt flake on you or just sit there with no input and no knowledge of what you are doing. Having a partner who doesnt even understand the skeleton code has made this project tough for me. Good luck and make sure you stay social in this class!

